facts are threatening.
[Music]
>> Wikipedia might seem like a public
utility, but in recent years, it's
surprisingly become a target in the
culture wars with attacks by Elon Musk,
Tucker Carlson.
>> Wikipedia is a servant to the ruling
class, obviously,
>> and even congressional Republicans.
Wikipedia is now at the center of
debates about truth, trust, and bias.
But its co-founder Jimmy Wales says that
the ingredients behind the site's
success might actually offer us a path
back to a shared reality. He's written a
book called The Seven Rules of Trust, a
blueprint for building things that last.
I came in skeptical of his
prescriptions, but I left hoping he's
right. Here's my conversation with Jimmy
Wales.
>> Welcome to the interview. It's great to
have you.
>> Thanks. This is great to be here.
>> So, I wanted to talk to you because I
think this is a very tenuous moment uh
for trust and your new book is all about
that. In it, you sort of lay out what
you call the seven rules of trust based
on your work at Wikipedia and we'll talk
about all those as well as some of the
threats and challenges uh to Wikipedia.
But big picture, how would you describe
our current trust deficit? I draw a
distinction between what's going on
maybe with uh politics and journalism,
the culture wars and all of that and
day-to-day life because I think in
day-to-day life people still do trust
each other. People generally think most
people are basically nice. Um and we're
all human beings bumping along on the
planet trying to do our best and
obviously there are definitely people
who aren't trustworthy. Um but the
crisis we see in in politics, trust in
politicians, trust in journalism, trust
in business, uh that is coming from
other places and is something that we
can fix.
>> One of the reasons why you can be an
authority on this is because you created
something that scores very high on
trust. You have built something that
people want to engage with.
>> Yeah. I mean, I I do think um Wikipedia
isn't as good as I want it to be. Um and
so I think that's part of why people do
have a certain amount of trust for us
because we try to be really transparent.
You know, you see the the notice at the
top of the page sometimes that says the
neutrality of this page has been
disputed or the following section
doesn't site any sources. People like
that. Not many places these days will
tell you, hey, we're not so sure here.
And I also think that it shows that the
public does have a real desire for
unbiased sort of neutral information.
They they want to trust. They want the
sources. They want to they want you to
prove what you're saying and so forth.
>> How does Wikipedia define a fact?
>> Basically, we're very old-fashioned
about this sort of thing. What we look
for is good quality sources. So, we we
like uh you know, peer-reviewed
scientific research. for example, as
opposed to populist uh tabloid reports,
um you know, we look for quality
magazines, newspapers, etc. So, we don't
typically treat a random tweet as a
fact. And so, you know, we're pretty
boring on that regard.
>> Yeah. It's sort of like the publication
that you site gets cited by other
reputable sources that it issues
corrections when it gets things wrong.
It's all the old-fashioned sort of good
stuff. And I think it's important to say
when we look at different sources, they
will often come to things from a
different perspective or different
political point of view. That doesn't
diminish the quality of the source. So
for example, I live here in London in
the UK and we have the Telegraph, which
is a generally right-leaning but quality
newspaper. We have the Guardian,
generally left-leaning but quality
newspaper. Hopefully the facts as you
read the articles and you and you glean
through it, the facts should be reliable
and solid, but you have to be very
careful as an editor to tease out, okay,
what are the facts that are agreed upon
here and what are the things that are
opinions on those facts? And that's, you
know, that's an editorial job. It's
never perfect and it's never easy.
>> And Wikipedia also is famously open
source. It's decentralized and
essentially it's run by thousands of
volunteer editors. You don't run
Wikipedia, we should say.
>> It runs me.
>> How do those editors fix disputes when
they don't agree on what facts to be
included or on how something is written?
How do you negotiate those differences?
>> Well, in in in the best cases, what what
happens and what should happen always is
take a controversial issue like
abortion. Obviously, if you think about
a a kind and thoughtful Catholic priest
and a kind and thoughtful Planned
Parenthood activist, they're never going
to agree about abortion, but probably
they can come together because I said
they're kind and thoughtful and say,
"Okay, but we can report on the
dispute." So rather than trying to say,
um, abortion is a sin or abortion is a
human right, you could say, um, Catholic
Church position is this and critics have
responded thusly. you'll you'll start to
hear a little of the Wikipedia style
because I believe that that's what a
reader really wants. They don't want to
come and get one side of the story. They
want to come and say, "Okay, wait, hold
on. I I actually want to understand what
people are arguing about. I want to
understand both sides. What are the best
arguments here?"
>> Yeah. And basically, every page has
what's called a talk tab where you can
see the history of the discussions and
the disputes, which relates to another
principle of the site, which is
transparency. You can look at everything
and see who did what and and what their
reasoning was.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So, you know, often times
if if you see something Wikipedia, you
think, huh, okay, well, that's why does
it say that? Often you'll be able to go
on the talk page and read sort of what
the debate was and how it was and you
can weigh in there and you can join and
say, "Oh, actually, I still think you
got it wrong. Here's some more sources.
Here's some more information. Uh, maybe
propose a compromise." That sort of
thing. And in my experience, it turns
out that a lot of pretty ideological
people on either side are actually more
comfortable doing that because they feel
confident in their beliefs. I think it's
the people who, and you'll find lots of
them on Twitter, for example, they're
not that confident in their own values
and their own belief system, and they
feel fear or panic or or anger if
someone's disagreeing with them rather
than saying, "Huh, okay, look, that's
different from what I think. Let me
explain my position." Which is where
you're more intellectually grounded
person will will come from. What you're
saying is supported um actually by a
study about Wikipedia that came out in
the science journal Nature in 2019. It's
called the wisdom of polarized crowds.
Perhaps counterintuitively
um it says that politically contentious
Wikipedia pages end up being of higher
quality. Uh meaning that they're more
evidence-based, they have more consensus
uh around them. But I do want to ask
about the times when consensus build
isn't necessarily easy as it relates to
specific topics on Wikipedia. some pages
they have actually restricted editing
privileges. Um, so the Arab-Israeli
conflict, climate change, abortion,
unsurprising topics there. Why are those
restricted and why doesn't the wisdom of
polarized crowds work for those
subjects?
>> Well, typically the the subjects that
are restricted are uh we try to keep
that as short as we can. Um, the most
common type of case is if something's
really big in the news or if you know
some big online influencer says, "Ah,
Wikipedia is wrong. Go and do something
about it." And um, you know, we get a
rush of people who don't understand our
culture, don't understand the rules, and
they're just vandalizing or they're just
sort of being rude and so on and so
forth. And we just as a calming down,
it's like, "Okay, hold on, just slow
down. We're going to protect the page."
And then there are pages where um you
know the most common type of protection
we call semi-p protection which just
means you you have to be you have to
have had an account for I forget the
exact numbers is something like 4 days
and you have made 10 edits without
getting banned. Now typically and this
is what's surprising to a lot of people
about Wikipedia like 99% of the pages
maybe more than 99% you can edit without
even logging in and it goes live
instantly. That's like mindboggling, but
it kind of points to the fact that most
people are basically nice. Most people
are trustworthy. People don't just come
by and vandalize Wikipedia. Um, and
often if they do, it's because they're
just experimenting or they didn't
believe that would like they're like,
"Oh my god, it actually went live and I
didn't know I was going to do that."
It's like, "Yeah, please don't do that
again."
>> This brings me to some of the
challenges. Wikipedia,
while it has created this very
trustworthy
um system, it is under attack from a lot
of different places.
>> And one of Wikipedia's sort of
superpowers can also be seen as a
vulnerability, right? The fact that it
is created by human editors and human
editors can be threatened um even though
they're supposed to be anonymous. You've
had editors doxed, pressured by
governments to doctor information. Some
have had to flee their home countries.
I'm thinking of what's happened in
Russia, India, where those governments
have really taken aim at Wikipedia.
Would you say this is an expanding
problem? Uh yeah, I would I would I I I
think that um we are seeing all around
the world um a rise of um authoritarian
impulses um impulses towards censorship
um impulses towards controlling
information and very often these come
you know as a a wolf in sheep's clothing
because it's all about protecting the
children or whatever it might be that
that you know you move forward
uh in these kind of control ways, but at
the same time, you know, the Wikipedians
are very resilient and they're very
brave. And one of the things that um you
know, we believe is that in many cases
what's happened is a real lack of
understanding by politicians uh and
leaders of how Wikipedia works. Uh, you
know, a lot of people really have a very
odd assumption that it's somehow
controlled by the Wikipdia Foundation,
which is the charity that I set up that
that owns and operates the the website.
Um, and therefore they think it's
possible to pressure us in ways that
it's actually not possible to pressure
us. The community has real intellectual
independence. Um, but yeah, I do worry
about it. I mean, it's always uh
something uh that weighs very heavily on
us is is volunteers who are in dangerous
circumstances and how do they remain
safe is like critically important.
>> I want to bring up something that just
happened here in the US. In August,
James Comr and Nancy Mace, two
Republican representatives from the
House Oversight Committee, wrote a
letter to Wikipdia um requesting
records, communication, analysis on
specific editors and also any reviews on
bias regarding the state of Israel. uh
in particular their reason and I'm going
to quote here um is because they are
investigating the efforts of foreign
operations and individuals and academic
institutions subsidized by US taxpayer
dollars to influence US public opinion.
So can you tell me your reaction to that
query?
>> Um yeah I mean you know we've we've uh
given a response to the parts of that
that were reasonable. I mean, we what we
feel like is there's a deep
misunderstanding or lack of
understanding about how Wikipedia works.
Um, and so, you know, ultimately
the idea that something being biased is
a proper and fit subject for a
congressional investigation is ab
frankly absurd. Uh, and so, you know, in
terms of asking questions about uh cloak
and dagger, whatever, we're not going to
have anything useful to tell them. I'm
like, I know the Wikipedians. They're
like a bunch of nice geeks. So,
>> yeah. I mean, the Heritage Foundation
here in the United States, which was the
architect of Project 2025,
um have said that they want to dox your
editors. I mean, how do you protect
people from that?
>> I mean, it's embarrassing for the
Heritage Foundation. I remember when
they were intellectually respectable and
uh that's a shame that if that's what
they think is the right way forward,
they're just badly mistaken.
>> But it does seem that there is this
movement on the right to target
Wikipedia over these types of concerns.
And I'm wondering why you think that's
happening.
>> I mean, it's it's hard to say. There's a
lot of different motivations, a lot of
different people. Some of it would be uh
you know genuine concern if they see
that maybe Wikipedia is biased or you
know I I have seen for example uh Elon
Musk has said Wikipedia is biased
because they have this really strong
um rules about uh only citing mainstream
media and the mainstream media is
biased. Okay. I mean that's an
interesting question, interesting
criticism. uh certainly uh I think
worthy of some reflection by everyone
the media and so on and so forth but
it's hardly you know it's hardly news to
anybody and not actually that
interesting then other people you know
uh in various places around the world
not speaking just of the US but you know
facts are threatening and if you and
your policies are at odds with the facts
then you may find it very uncomfortable
for people to simply explain explain the
facts and you know I don't I don't know
that's always going to be a difficulty
but we're not about to say gee you know
maybe science isn't valid after all
maybe you know maybe the co vaccine you
know killed half the population no it
didn't like that's crazy and we're not
going to print that and so they're going
to have to get over it
>> I want to talk about a recent example um
of a controversy surrounding Wikipedia
and that's the assassination of Charlie
Kirk
You know, Senator Mike Lee called
Wikipedia wicked um because of the way
it had described Kirk um on its page as
a far-right conspiracy theorists among
other complaints that they had about the
page. And I went to look um at the time
that we're speaking. Um and that
description is now gone from Wikipedia.
Those on the left would say that that
description was accurate. those on the
right would say that that description
was biased all along. How do you see
that that tension?
>> Well, I mean, I think the the the
correct answer is you have to address
all of that. Uh you have to say, look,
this was a person I think the least
controversial thing you could say about
Charlie Kirk is that he was
controversial. I don't think anybody
would dispute that. and to say like okay
this was a a figure who was a great hero
to many people and treated as a demon by
others. He had these views many of which
are out of step with say mainstream
scientific thinking many of which are
very much in step with um religious
thinking and and so on and so forth. And
those are the kinds of things that if we
do our job well which I think we have in
this case we're going to describe all of
that. Like maybe you don't know anything
about Charlie Kirky. just heard, "Oh my
god, this this man was assassinated. Who
was he? What's this all about?" Well,
you should come and learn all that. You
should learn like who his supporters
were and why they supported him and what
are the arguments he put forward and
what are the things he said that upset
people. That's that's just part of
learning what the world is about. So
those words that were there, farright
and and conspiracy theorists, those were
in your view
the wrong words and and that the critics
of Wikipedia had a point.
>> It
well I don't it depends on what they
depends on the specific criticism. So if
the criticism is this word appeared on
this page for 17 minutes, I'm like you
know what that's you got to understand
how Wikipedia works. It's a con, you
know, it's a process, it's a discourse,
it's a dialogue. But, uh, to the extent,
uh, that he was called a conspiracy
theorist by prominent people, that's
part of his history. That's part of
what's there. And Wikipedia shouldn't
necessarily call him that, but we should
definitely document all of that.
>> You mentioned Elon Musk, who's come
after Wikipedia. He calls it Wikipedia
and he's now trying to start his own
version of Wikipedia called Graipedia
and he says it's going to strip out
ideological bias. I wonder what you
think attacks like his do for people's
trust in your platform at large because
as we've seen in the journalism space if
enough outside actors are telling people
not to trust something
they won't.
Well, I you know, it's very hard to say.
Uh I mean, I think for many people the
their level of trust in Elon Musk is
extremely low because he says wild
things all the time. So to that extent,
uh you know, when he attacks us, people
donate more money. So, you know, that's
not my favorite way of raising money.
But the truth is a lot of people are
responding very negatively to that
behavior.
One of the things I I do say in the book
and and I've said to Elon Musk is that
type of attack is
it's counterproductive even if you agree
with Elon Musk because to the extent
that he has convinced people falsely
that Wikipedia has been taken over by
woke activists um then two things
happen. your kind and thoughtful
conservatives who we very much welcome
and we want more people uh who are who
are thoughtful and intellectual and
maybe disagree about various aspects of
the spirit of our times come and join us
and and let's let's build let's make
Wikipedia better. But if those people
think, oh no, it's just going to be a
bunch of crazy woke activists. They're
going to go away. And then on the other
side, the crazy woke activists are going
to be like, great, I found my home. I
don't have to worry about whatever. I
can come and write rants against the
things I hate in the world. We don't
really want them either.
>> You said you talked to Elon Musk about
this. When did you talk to him about it
and and what was that conversation like?
>> Um I mean we've had various
conversations over the years. Um you
know he texts me sometimes, I text him
sometimes. Uh he's much more respectful
and quiet in private, but that you would
expect. It's got a big public persona.
When was the last time you had that
exchange?
>> That's a good question.
I I don't know. I think the morning
after the last election, he texted me
that that morning.
>> I congratulated him.
>> Obviously, the the debate that happened
uh more recently was because of the hand
gesture that he made that um was
>> interpreted in different ways. Um and he
was upset in the way that it had been
characterized on Wikipedia.
>> Yeah, I heard from him after that. Yeah.
I mean, in that case, I I pushed back
because I went to check like, oh, what
does Wikipedia say? And it's it was very
matter of fact. It said he made this
gesture. It got a lot of news coverage.
Many interpreted as this and he denied
that it was a Nazi salute. That's the
whole story. It's part of history. I
don't see how you could be upset about
it being presented in that way. If
Wikipedia said, you know, Elon Musk is a
Nazi, that would be really, really
wrong. But to say, look, he did this
gesture and it created a lot of
attention and some people said it looked
like a Nazi. Yeah, that's great. That's
that's what Wikipedia is. That's what it
should do.
>> Do you think Elon Musk is acting in good
faith? You're saying that in private
he's nice and cordial. Um, but his
public persona is is very different. Uh,
you know, I I think it's a fool's errand
to try and figure out what going on in
Elon Musk's mind. So, I'm not going to
try.
>> I I don't mean to press you on this. I I
I'm just trying to um
refer to something that you said, which
is people human to human are nice,
right? That we're good, that we should
assume good faith. Um,
>> and so you're saying that Elon
one-on-one is lovely. Um, but he is
attacking your institution. Um, and
he is potentially draining support for
Wikipedia.
>> Well, I mean, I I don't think he has the
power he thinks he has or that a lot of
people think he has to damage Wikipedia.
I mean, we'll be here in a hundred years
and he won't. So I think as long as we
stay Wikipedia, people will still love
us. They will say, you know what,
Wikipedia is great. And all the noise in
the world and all these people ranting,
that's that's not really the real thing.
The real thing is genuine human
knowledge, genuine discourse, genuinely
grappling with the difficult issues of
our day. That's actually super valuable.
There's a lot of noise in the world. Um,
I hope Elon will take another look and
change his mind. That'd be great. But I
would say that of anybody. And um you
know, in the meantime, I don't think we
need to obsess over it or worry that
much about it. Uh you know, we don't
depend on him for funding. And yeah,
there we are.
>> I hear you saying that part of your
strategy here is just to stay the
course, do what Wikipedia does.
Are there changes that you do think
Wikipedia needs to make to stay accurate
and relevant?
Well, I I think what we have to focus on
when we when we think about the long
run, we also have to keep up with
technology. Uh, you know, we've got this
this rise of the large language models
which are an amazing but deeply flawed
technology. And so, the way I think
about that is to say, okay, look, I know
for a fact uh like
no AI today is competent to write a
Wikipedia entry. It can do a passable
job on a very big famous topic, but
anything slightly obscure and the
hallucination problem is disastrous. But
at the same time, I'm very interested in
how can we uh use this technology to
support our community. One idea is, you
know, take a short entry and uh feed in
the sources. Maybe it's only got five
sources and it's short and just ask the
AI, is there anything in the entry
that's not supported by the sources or
is there anything in the sources that
could be in Wikipedia but isn't
give me a couple suggestions if you can
find anything. And as I've played with
that, it's pretty okay. It's it needs
work and it's not perfect, but if we
react with just like, oh my god, we hate
AI, then we'll miss the opportunity to
do that. Um, and if we go crazy like,
"Oh, we love AI and we start using it
for everything." Well, we're going to
lose trust because we're going to
include a lot of AI hallucinated errors
and so on.
>> I mean, that's interesting because um
Wikipedia um writes this yearly global
trends report on what might impact
Wikipedia's work. And for 2025, it
wrote, quote, "We are seeing that
lowquality AI content is being turned
out not just to spread false
information, but as um a getrichqu
scheme, and it is overwhelming the
internet. Highquality information that
is reliably human produced has become a
dwindling and precious commodity." End
quote. I read that uh crawlers from
large language models have basically
crashed your servers um because they use
so much of Wikipedia's uh content. Mhm.
>> And it did make me wonder, will people
be using
these large language models to answer
their questions and not going to the
source which is you?
>> Well, you know, this has been a question
since the since they began. We haven't
seen any real evidence of that. And I
use uh AI personally quite a lot. And I
use it in a different way though,
different use cases. And
>> how
>> see I like to cook. It's my hobby. I
fancy myself as being quite a good cook.
And I will often ask JGPD for a recipe.
I also ask it for links to uh websites
with recipes. It sometimes makes them
up. So that's a bit hilarious. Um and I
also suggest be careful using Chad GBT
for cooking unless you actually already
know how to cook because when it's
wrong, it's really wrong. But um
Wikipedia would be useless for that.
Wikipedia doesn't have recipes. I it's a
completely different realm of knowledge
than encyclopedic knowledge. So yeah,
I'm not that worried about it. I do
worry about in this time when journalism
has been under incredible financial
pressure and there's a new competitor
for journalism which is sort of
lowquality churnedout content uh
produced for search engine optimization
to compete with uh real human written
content. And to the extent that that
further undermines the ability for uh
the business model of particularly local
journalism is something that I'm I'm
very worried about then that's that's a
big problem and it's not directly about
Wikipedia but it is about it's very
cheap to generate very plausible text.
Um that yeah that that doesn't seem good
to me.
>> Definitely doesn't seem good to me
either as a journalist. Um, I just
recall that there was this hope that as
the internet got flooded with garbage,
and this is even before AI, this was
just, you know, kind of troll farms and
and clickbait that it would benefit
trustworthy sources sources of
information. And instead, we've seen
that the opposite has happened.
Wikipedia, news organizations, academic
institutions, they're all struggling
with the same thing.
Why do you think that they are
struggling in an era where they should
be flourishing if what you say is true?
That people ultimately do want
to trust the information
that they're getting.
>> Well, I mean, I I think that a a big
piece of it uh is that the news media
has not done a very good job of sticking
to the facts and avoiding bias. Uh, I
think a lot of news media, not all of
it, but a lot of news media has become
uh more partisan and there are reasons
for it and it's short- termism. Um, and
you'll even see there's there's some
stuff in the book about this uh some
arguments by some people in journalism
that objectivity is we should give up on
it and be partisan and so on and so
forth. I think that's a huge mistake and
I think there's lots of evidence for
that. You know, Wikipedia is incredibly
popular and that's one of the things
people say about Wikipedia that they
really value and they're really
disappointed if they feel like we're
biased and and so on and so forth. So, I
mean, I gave the example earlier because
I live in the UK, I I read these papers,
but you know, if you if you look at the
Telegraph and you look at the Guardian
on an issue related to climate change, I
can already tell you before we start
reading which attitude is going to come
from which paper. Neither of them is
doing a very good job of saying actually
it's not our job to be on one side of
that issue or the other. It's our job to
describe the facts and to understand the
other side and so on and so forth.
Returning to that value system is hugely
important because otherwise how are you
going to get the trust of the public? I
guess I'm surprised at you saying this
because Wikipedia has been
faced with similar attacks on its own
credibility and you say that you are
neutral and credible and that the system
that you employ is fair and yet there
are people who completely dispute that.
And so
I think the response to what is a very
common u broadside against journalists
and journalism in this era um that they
have taken aside. Those of us on the
inside would say it is part of a larger
project of discrediting facts and we've
seen those attacks on Wikipedia. We've
seen them on academic institutions and
we've seen them on the media. They are
all part of the same thing. So I guess
I'd love you to tease out why it's
unfair when it happens to Wikipedia, but
it's fair when it happens to
journalistic institutions.
>> Well, it's either fair or unfair for
both depending on what the actual
situation is. So, uh, you know, there
have been cases in the history of
Wikipedia when somebody said to me,
"Wow, Wikipedia is really biased on this
topic." And I say the response should be
wow let's check it out let's see let's
let's try and do better if we find that
we have been biased in some area then we
need to do a better job and I think that
for many outlets that isn't happening
that instead what's happening is
pandering to an existing audience and I
understand why uh the reason why that's
happened it has to do with the business
model has to do with getting clicks
online and so on and so forth for it has
to do with the fact that without
sufficient financial resources, you have
to kind of scrap for every penny you can
get in the short run rather than saying
no, we're going to take the long view
even though a few people may cancel uh
their subscription. And you know, I just
I'm encouraging us all to say, you know
what, let's double down on that. Let's
let's really take very very seriously
the need to be trustworthy.
>> On the interview, we talked to our guest
twice. So Jimmy and I spoke again about
how he thinks part of Wikipedia success
is the fact that profit isn't even on
the table.
Thank you again for uh for coming back.
So I was thinking about our first
conversation. I was thinking about the
moment that Wikipedia was created in a
time before social media, before sort of
the dramatic polarization that we've
seen, before the political weaponization
of the internet that we've seen.
And I'm still after talking to you sort
of not sure that the lessons of how
Wikipedia was created apply to today.
And so I I wanted to ask you, do you
think Wikipedia could be created now and
exist in the same way that it does?
>> Uh yeah, I do. I I yeah, I think it
could. And I I actually think that the
lessons are pretty timeless. At the same
time, yeah, it's it's absolutely valid
to acknowledge the internet is different
now. And there's new problems, new
problems that come from social media and
all the rest and the, you know, the
aggressively
politicized culture wars that we live
in. Uh, that is different, but I don't
think that's a permanent change to
humanity. Uh, I think we're just going
through a really
crazy era and, uh, here we are.
>> Why do you think the internet didn't go
the way of Wikipedia? you know,
collegial, working for the greater good,
fun, nerdy, all the words that you use
to describe that moment of creation.
Well, I you know, the thing is I'm I'm
old enough that I sort of,
you know, grew up on the internet in the
age of Usenet, which was this massive
message board, kind of like Reddit
today, except for not controlled by
anyone because it was by design
distributed and uncontrollable,
unmodderatable for the most part. And it
was notoriously toxic. You know, there
was some skepticism then and and that
was when it, you know, it first
was recognized, I suppose, first
recognized, uh, that, you know,
anonymity can be problematic, that
people, you know, behind an alias,
behind their keyboards, no
accountability
can be just really bad and really
vicious. And, you know, that's when we
first started seeing spam. Uh, I
remember some of the early spam and
everybody was like, "Oh my god, what's
this spam?" You know, it's terrible. So,
I think some of these things are just
human issues. Um, but now they've, you
know, that's to a larger degree than we.
We live online.
>> It's in our pocket all the time.
>> It's in our pocket all the time. Yeah.
So, uh, obviously the impact is much
more. Hm. I mean, you know, I think I
was thinking um about Wikipedia in
particular and maybe why it went a
different way
in that
you chose at a certain point to make it
a not for profit. Um you chose not to
sort of capitalize on the success of
Wikipedia. Uh, and it made me wonder
about, you know, Open AI started as an
open-source for the greater good
project, kind of like Wikipedia, and
they've now shifted into being a
multi-billion dollar business.
I'd love to know your thoughts on that
shift for OpenAI. But more broadly, do
you think that um the money part of it
really kind of also changed the
equation? Yeah, I mean I I do think it
made a difference in in lots of ways.
And I'm not against for-profit, you
know, I'm not, you know, uh there's
nothing nothing wrong with for-profit
companies, but even as a nonprofit, you
do have to have a business model, so to
speak. You've got to figure out how
you're going to pay the bills. And for
Wikipedia, that's not too bad. You know,
the truth is, we don't require billions
and billions and billions of dollars um
in order to operate Wikipedia. It's, you
know, we need servers and database and
we need to support the community and all
these kinds of things. I would say in
terms of the development of Wikipedia
and
you know how we're we're so community
first and communitydriven, you wouldn't
really necessarily have that if the
board were made up largely of investors
who are worried about the profitability
and things like that. Al also I think
it's important today for our
intellectual independence. Uh you know
we're we're being we're under attack in
various ways as we've talked about. And
you know what's interesting is you know
one of the things that isn't going to
happen actually the most successful
tweet I ever had uh a uh I think it was
a New York Post journalist uh tweeted to
Elon you should just buy Wikipedia when
he was complaining something about
Wikipedia. And I just wrote not for
sale. That was very popular. Uh but it
isn't for sale. And and you know, I just
thought, you know what? You know, I I
would like to imagine myself as the
person who would say, Elon, no thank you
for a $30 billion offer if I owned the
whole thing. But would I, you know,
actually 30 billion, you know, 30
million? Yeah, I'm not interested. 30
bill, you know, and so that's not going
to happen because we're a charity and I
don't get paid and the board doesn't get
paid and all of that. And I do think
that's important for that independence
that that we're not we don't think in
those terms. We're not even interested
in that.
>> Since we last spoke, the co-founder of
Wikipedia, Larry Sanger, has given an
interview to Tucker Carlson that's
getting a lot of attention here in the
United States on the right.
>> And he has had a lot to say about
Wikipedia, and not a lot of its good.
Um,
in the past, he's called it one of the
most effective organs of establishment
propaganda in history.
Um, and
we should say he believes Wikipedia has
a liberal bias.
And in this interview, um, and on his,
uh, X feed, he's advocating for what
he's calling reforms to the site, which
include reveal who Wikipedia's leaders
are and abolish source blacklists. And I
just wonder what you make of it.
>> Yeah, I haven't watched it. Um, I can I
I can't bear Tucker Carlson, so I'm
gonna have to just suck it up and watch,
I suppose. Uh, so I'm not I can't speak
to the specifics uh in that sense. But,
um, you know, the the idea that
everything is an equally valid source
and that it's somehow wrong that
Wikipedia tries to prioritize the
mainstream media and quality newspapers,
magazines, and make judgments about that
is
not something I can in any way apologize
for. But you know there there's no
question like one of my sort of
fundamental beliefs is that Wikipedia
should always stand ready to accept
criticism and change. And so to the
extent that you know a criticism says
Wikipedia is biased in a certain way and
that these are the flaws in the system
well we should take that seriously. we
should say okay like is there a way to
improve Wikipedia you know is our is our
mix of editors right right at the same
time I I also think you know what uh
we're going to be here in a hundred
years and we're designing everything for
the long haul and the only way I think
we can last that long is not by
pandering to this sort of raging mob of
the moment but by maintaining our values
maintaining our trustworthiness. Um,
being serious about trying to make
things better if we've got legitimate
criticism. Um, and so, you know, other
than the fact that, okay, we're just
going to do our thing and we're going to
do it as well as we can, I don't know
what else we can do.
>> I think you and Larry did build
something beautiful that has endured. I
do wonder if it's
going to be part of our future because I
feel some despair about where we're all
headed and some fear.
And I guess you'll just say that I have
to trust that it's all going to end up
okay.
>> But I do
worry that it might not.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's there's so
much right now to to worry about. Um,
and you know, I can't dismiss all that.
Um, I can try and cheer you up a little
bit. Um, but, uh, you know, I, you know,
we just saw,
you know, Donald Trump talking about the
enemy within and suggesting the military
should be in cities doing what? Shooting
people. He doesn't I It's unbelievable.
Like it's literally on the other hand, I
sort of think he's just as blustering
and being Donald Trump and all that,
>> but you have to worry.
>> That didn't cheer me up. I got to tell
you right there that that
fair enough. I got to tell you, like as
a pep talk,
>> thumbs down on that. Pretty low. Pretty
low.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> I think we're going to be all right, but
it's Yeah, it's a it's a rough time.
>> Okay. What was the last page you read on
Wikipedia and what were you trying to
find out?
>> Oh, that's a good question. Can I take a
second to look?
>> Sure.
>> I just go to my my Chrome
history.
Show full history. Search Wikipedia.
Now, I'm going to skip over
list of Wikipedians by number of edits.
That's just me doing work. Oh, I know.
This is fun.
Admiral Sir Hugo Pearson, who died in
1912,
used to own my house in the countryside.
>> Oh.
>> And I I found this out and and there's a
picture of him which I've uh I found on
eBay and ordered and I was trying to
remember something and there's nothing
about my house in the article because he
was there and then he moved away and uh
but I love it and I'm thinking of making
a uh replacing the AI voice assistant. I
use Alexa. You know, people use Okay,
Google or whatever. I want to make my
own and I want to have it be a character
and the character will be the ghost of
Hugo Pearson. Anyway, that's what I was
researching. I'm not sure I'll ever get
around to it. I'm like really busy sort
of promoting my book and things like
that, but uh when I get spare time, I
dream of uh sort of being a geek and I'm
going to go home in February maybe and
just work all month playing in my house.
>> Can I say something? Um, Jimmy, you are
a geek in the best possible way.
Reanimating the ghost of the man who
used to own your house.
>> It's a It's a lovely endeavor.
>> You're right.
>> Thank you so much for your time. I
really appreciate it.
>> Oh, thank you. Yeah, it's been great.
I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro.
>> And I'm David Marchesy.
>> And we're the hosts of the Interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.
[Music]